Myth 1. Appearance is the most important aspect of website design
Though appearance is one of the crucial aspects of website design, it is not the only aspect associated with design industry. 
A website design does not indicate that your site should only look beautiful. What good would a beautiful looking site do to your 
business if it does not have relevant content or easy navigation for the users?

Myth busted: A majority of small businesses design put all of their efforts in making their website look good while overlooking 
the places which need the utmost attention. The web design myth occurs when we get caught up on the idea that design is all about 
images, visuals and graphics. The way a site is presented is a crucial aspect of design. If you had a nice looking site where you 
couldn’t even read the content, then that’s just a design flaw that needs to be handled.

Myth 2. No need for a mobile version site
There are still a number of webmasters that do not consider responsiveness an important aspect. Mobile basically involves tablets, 
smartphones and netbooks that account for more than 35% of the traffic.

Myth busted: As a matter of fact, more than 40% of web users use their smartphones and tablets more than desktops or laptops. 
In addition, Google has also started considering responsiveness an important factor while indexing websites. You do need a 
mobile-friendly version of your website to avoid missing a lot of potential customers. Make sure you always hire a web agency 
that makes your website responsive rather than dead and buried

Myth 3. Sales Oriented Site
Yes, you do build websites to improve your sales and ROI. But it should not act like it is a sales tool. Not every visitor lands 
on your website are ready to be sold. You need to give your visitors enough reasons to choose you over your competitors.

Myth busted: A sales-oriented website is full of graphics and buttons that actually begs visitors to click them. Building a 
sales oriented site does not encourage return visitors; however, an easy to navigate and a content-rich website does.

Myth 4. I don’t need social media buttons on my site
Google+, LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and so much more – the list is never ending. Connecting with each and every 
social media network is not only time consuming but also requires a lot of efforts on your part.

Myth busted: Social media plays an important role in improving your site’s traffic as well as search engine rankings. Instead 
of sharing content on every platform, adding social media buttons is a way better option. Social media buttons ensure that your 
social media pages are a just a click away.

Myth 5: Free site can solve the purpose
Who doesn’t love free things? Everybody does! But when it comes to establishing an online presence, it is always advisable to 
avoid building free sites.

Myth busted: Free things always come with a catch. And free sites are no different. First of all, there will be a lot of 
advertisement done on your site. Secondly, the domain name you choose would not represent your business. Thirdly, you would 
not have complete control over your site. If you are serious about your business, don’t lose it with lame decisions.

Myth 6: I do not need content to design a website
Most of the web designers develop a wireframe adding “Lorem Ipsum” as the dummy text. But, using dummy text makes the design 
unrealistic. The sad part is it develops the illusion that the content is the secondary requirement.

Myth busted: The fact is that users visit your website to get the information they are searching for. Yes, they browse the site 
for the content, not design. Content is the essential component in user interface design. A website that contains a simple design 
with high-quality content can do much better on usability test compared to an attractive design with pointless or dummy text.

Myth 7: Design is all about making website attractive
Most of the designer takes web design as decoration. They think the main goal of web design is to make a website attractive. 
Yet, the design should focus more on something how it works rather than the appearance.

Myth busted: Design is more about form and function. Indeed, the main aim of the design is to solve the issue effectively. It 
is based on the expectation of users from the online solution. Also, the tool of the designer is more than just colours, and 
typography. It also contains user research, prototyping, testing, user experience, navigation and many others.

Myth 8: Websites updates are not necessary
Will the design remain content forever? The mistake that most of the people make while developing a site is not focusing on the 
recent trends.

Myth busted: A Web design trend evolves together with devices and web browsers. An approach to developing a website should be 
continuous. You should keep on updating and expanding the site with new ideas and concepts. It is better to redesign the site 
in every 2-3 years to make sure the site operates well.

Myth 9: I should like my website
You do not develop a website for yourself; rather you develop to give information to the users. So ask yourself. Is my website 
informative? What information are my users looking for? What should I include to switch the users into the potential customer?

Myth busted: Well, you are not an expert to know everything. Or, you do not have black magic to know the expectation of your users. 
Better ask them to give feedback on the products and service you offer. This helps you to know their expectation from your 
business and work accordingly.

Myth 10: Adding more features gives better design
Do you think adding more features gives better design? Well, you should focus on adding appropriate features rather than more 
features. Adding unnecessary features can make your design pointless.

Myth busted: There are lots of websites making use experience unreasonably complex. This is because of unwanted features added 
on the website. Indeed features add plus points to your design. But, make sure it is relevant and contribute in driving the 
conversions.

Myth 11: Home page matters the most
Most of the designers design the website concentrating more on the website. Do you think it is a good idea? Well, it might 
be the web design myth.

Myth busted: It is not necessary to focus only on the website. Due to the boost of search and paid links are clicked by the 
users, the customer might not notice your homepage as well. Here, focusing only on the home page might waste your time. Better 
have a constant design flow all over the site.

Myth 12: Good web design is expensive
Most of the people have misconception thinking that good web design is expensive. This is not true as there are lots of 
reasonably priced remarkable websites.

Myth busted: Today, there are lots of content management system (WordPress, Joomla, Weebly and many others) available that 
helps to accomplish your web design venture easily and quickly. Keep in mind, beautiful design is standard that can be 
developed in a cost-effective way as well.

Myth 13: It is not necessary to integrate your website with Email marketing
Since email and search are the most wide-spread internet approach, if you ignore this you might be left behind your competitors.

Myth busted: The email produced from your website is very important. Email marketing is useful when you do it in a right way. 
This is the main reason you require a digital marketing agency. If not, your customers might get bored of you poor value offer 
and the monthly newsletter.